Removal of harmful and grossly offensive pages
You may have been redirected here from: /scp-001-o5, /scp-321, /scp-590, /scp-963, /scp-1004, /an-evening-with-bright, /codebrown, /theselfinsert, /dr-bright-s-personnel-file
SCP Wiki Staff have removed most pages authored by TheDuckman, aka Bright.

1. Who was Bright?
TheDuckman, commonly referred to as Bright and also known under the WikiDot usernames Dr Bright and AdminBright1 was a writer, administrator, and long-time community figurehead on the SCP Wiki. Their most well-known contribution to the wiki was their author avatar, Dr. Jack Bright, a sarcastic Foundation researcher who was cursed with immortality through SCP-963 (now deleted), an amulet that, when worn, would transfer the soul and consciousness of Dr. Bright into the body of the wearer, possessing them. This character was among the most popular on the wiki, with many references onsite and fans offsite.
In May of 2022, two years after their retirement from SCP Wiki staff, TheDuckman was issued a permanent ban by the wiki's Anti-Harassment Team for inappropriate sexual conduct. It is the finding of the team that TheDuckman:

Leveraged their position as a powerful and influential user to enter into inappropriate sexual relations with many wiki users, some of whom were underage.2
Groomed, manipulated, and intimidated others for their own sexual gratification.
Capitalized on their position as (for a time) one of the SCP Wiki's only active administrators to run the website as they saw fit, which included denying the applications of users who self-identified as non-binary and adding a note to the "Join the Site" page which suggested that attaching nude photographs of oneself to an application would lead to faster processing times.3
Afforded privileges to users who reciprocated their sexual advances and engaged in harassment against those who did not.
Responded to confrontation about their behavior by feigning ignorance, claiming that their actions were meant to be interpreted as jokes, and minimizing the severity of their actions.
Used their position as an administrator and leading member of the Anti-Harassment Team to avoid consequences for their inappropriate behavior.

This behavior took place over the span of many years and only ended with their retirement from staff and subsequent ban.
2. Why were TheDuckman's articles deleted?
Among the users banned from the SCP Wiki for harassment, TheDuckman is a unique case on account of the extent to which their creative contributions to the wiki were linked to their ban-worthy behavior. They leveraged their status as the creator of Dr. Bright and the Bright family in order to take advantage of impressionable fans of those characters, and some of their works featured scenes that they found sexually gratifying, including explicit depictions of child sexual abuse. Even the works that were not explicit in nature gave TheDuckman a level of persistent influence that they could use to their advantage in the future. Consequently, at the behest of many onsite community members, the Bright Works Project (BWP) was established to address TheDuckman's continued influence on the wiki. This process included deleting all of their old works.
Annotations for the more egregious articles are currently being worked on. We apologize for the delay.
3. Why can't we separate the art from the artist?
Many have expressed that, although they do not condone TheDuckman's actions, they still enjoy works featuring the Bright character. Staff do not wish to pass judgement on this behavior, but it warrants explaining why so many wiki users disapprove of the continued use of the character.
"Separating the art from the artist" is often a complex and fraught proposition. If an onerous artist no longer stands to benefit in any capacity from the continued enjoyment of their work due to extenuating circumstances (such as being deceased), then such enjoyment can be relatively harmless. However, if an artist leverages the fame and wealth gained from such enjoyment to engage in abusive or otherwise harmful behavior, it may not be possible to cleanly separate art and artist. It is the belief of staff (and many non-staff wiki users) that TheDuckman's works fall into the latter category.
TheDuckman — who, as previously mentioned, is often referred to as Bright — is inseparable from the character of Dr. Jack Bright. The character is their author avatar, and they based his traits on aspects of their own online persona, an intentional blurring of the line between art and artist which they leveraged to more effectively prey on community members. Even the works of theirs that did not feature the Bright character contributed to a personal mythology that was used to facilitate misconduct. For these reasons, staff have concluded that their works cannot continue to exist on the wiki without enabling significant harm, and many users feel similarly about any use of their characters on the wiki today, especially Dr. Bright.
The character of Dr. Elias Shaw was initially offered as a replacement for Dr. Bright, a way of erasing the Bright name from works featuring him while changing them as minimally as possible. This idea initially gained significant traction, but a number of issues later became apparent. The two characters were so similar that many treated them as interchangeable, using terms such as "Bright/Shaw" to refer to both of them as if they were a single entity, which prevented the character from effectively countering TheDuckman's enduring influence on the wiki. Consequently, many users are not fond of using the Dr. Shaw character, as it has come to be viewed as an ineffective Band-Aid solution to TheDuckman's influence.
Staff do not wish to tell any users who are interested in the Bright/Shaw character that they are not welcome in the SCP community. However, all users are strongly recommended not to engage with the character for all of the above reasons and to understand the tangible harm that can result from continuing to perpetuate TheDuckman's creations. It is the view of staff that condemning TheDuckman's actions while continuing to use the Bright/Shaw character is inherently contradictory.
4. What was the Bright Works Project? Why did it take so long?
As previously stated, the BWP was established in order to address TheDuckman's continued influence on the wiki, which it sought to do by removing and countering that influence via the deletion of their articles, the removal of their contributions to pages that they did not write themselves, the removal or replacement of mentions of the Bright/Shaw character where possible, and various other measures. All involved staff members wished to avoid acting hastily — when "The Things Dr. Bright is Not Allowed to do at the Foundation," colloquially known as the "Bright List," was deleted, many of TheDuckman's public-facing victims faced considerable harassment, an outcome that the BWP sought to avoid at all costs. Due to a variety of unforeseen issues, the BWP took far too long to answer the question of what to do with TheDuckman's works, a failure for which staff wishes to apologize to all affected community members, especially victims.
5. What happens next?
This page will continue to be updated as time goes on. A timeline of events meant to explain how certain staff failures came to pass, as well as the policy measures that staff will take in order to ensure that those failures do not happen again, is in development. Annotations for particularly egregious TheDuckman articles will be created to fully demonstrate why and how each article is harmful. Response pieces, articles written by victims of TheDuckman and others affected, will also be hosted here. We aim to make this note as informative as possible, so any and all feedback is welcome.
If you have any feedback or further questions, please feel free to send a message to:
Sinking_Otter
BAD_DATA
Mystical AWB
AriadnesThread
This list of names is valid as of the 8th of September, 2026.
If you are someone who has been affected by TheDuckman/Bright or are otherwise the victim of harassment/abuse from a member of the SCP Wiki, the Anti-Harassment Team is always available for contact on this page. While TheDuckman was a member in the past, staff have now worked far more diligently to ensure that the Anti-Harassment Team is free from any corruption or bias.
Above all else, staff would like to sincerely and formally apologize for the actions of TheDuckman. This apology is intended for the community at large, but particularly all victims of TheDuckman's abuse. It was unacceptable by any metric, and staff aims to ensure that, going forward, the SCP Foundation Wiki is a place that is safe for all users.

Footnotes
1. For clarity, despite the implication of their username, TheDuckman is no longer an administrator of the SCP Wiki and was permanently banned from the site in 2022. They will henceforth be referred to as "TheDuckman" rather than "AdminBright" to avoid any confusion regarding this.
2. Of note is that, while the SCP Wiki's minimum age requirement is currently 18 years, this was not the case while TheDuckman was in a position of power within it. While they were engaged in the activities that led to their ban, many site users were aged 15-17; they were one of the oldest members of staff.
3. Both the note and the requirement for users to include a gender on membership applications have since been removed. Inclusion of anything outside the necessary criteria will result in a denied application.
